05-results/README.md, before:

## Overview of the folder `05-results`

This folder contains the results of the analyses that are used to produce the figures and tables
presented in the manuscript.

0. Folders:

  - `genomes`: contains the FastA files of the metagenome-assembled genomes used for the
    phylogenetic analyses

1. `PREP`: results related to the data preparation

  - `PREP_Nextflow_EAGER_noReads_per_sample.tsv`: the overview of the number of reads per individual
    and library type (all data and non-UDG data only) that were available for *de novo* assembly
  - `PREP_Nextflow_EAGER_noReads_Weyrich2017_Neanderthals.tsv`: the overview of the number of reads
    available for the four Neanderthal calculus samples published by Weyrich *et al.* (2017)
  - `PREP_Nextflow_EAGER_noReads_ElMiron_sediments.tsv`: the overview of the number of the number of
    reads available for the six El Miron sediment samples generated for this study

2. `ASMB`: results related to the *de novo* assembly and non-reference binning

  - `ASMB_assemblystats_calN50_metaQUAST.tsv`: the overview of the performance of the *de novo*
    assembly summarised using calN50, metaQUAST, Prokka and pyDamage
  - `ASMB_nBins_initialbinning.tsv`: the overview of the number of bins that were returned by the
    individual binners metabat2, maxbin2, and concoct for each sample
  - `ASMB_MAGS_metaWRAP_prefilter.tsv`: the overview of the quality of the MAGs refined by metaWRAP
    prior to filtering for chimeric contigs
  - `ASMB_MAGS_metaWRAP_postfilter.tsv`: the overview of the quality of the MAGs refined by metaWRAP
    after filtering for chimeric contigs

3. `QUAL`: results related to the data quality

  - `QUAL_fragmentlength_distribution.tsv`: the overview of the distribution of DNA molecule lengths
    across the sequencing data generated on 2x 75 bp paired-end Illumina sequencing runs
  - `QUAL_freeBayes_nSubsts.tsv`: the overview of the frequency of each allele difference between the
    allele exported by MEGAHIT from the assembly graph and the genotype call inferred by freeBayes
    was observed
  - `QUAL_freeBayes_distributionMAF.tsv`: the distribution of the allele frequencies for the allele
    that freeBayes inferred to be the genotype by 5% frequency bins
  - `QUAL_freeBayes_nContigs.tsv`: the overview of the number of contigs per sample for which a
    difference between the MEGAHIT and freeBayes sequence could be observed
  - `QUAL_pyDamage_summary_qvalue_predaccuracy.tsv`: summary of the pyDamage results regarding the
    fraction of contigs that are considered "ancient" by pyDamage and the distribution of the
    predicted accuracy
  - `QUAL_dentalcalculus_Chlorobiaceae_refalignment.tsv`: the overview of the number of reads
    aligned to the Chlorobiaceae MAG contigs and to all contigs of EMN001 for each dental calculus
    sample

4. `REFG`: results related to constructing genomes using reference genomes

  - `REFG_Chlorobiaceae_genomes_snpAD.tsv`: the overview of the performance of the recovery of
    Chlorobiaceae genomes from samples with strong evidence of Chlorobiaceae DNA using the EMN001
    Chlorobiaceae MAG as the reference

Commit message:

Quantify the amount of aDNA damage for two species

05-results/README.md, after:

## Overview of the folder `05-results`

This folder contains the results of the analyses that are used to produce the figures and tables
presented in the manuscript.

0. Folders:

  - `genomes`: contains the FastA files of the metagenome-assembled genomes used for the
    phylogenetic analyses

1. `PREP`: results related to the data preparation

  - `PREP_Nextflow_EAGER_noReads_per_sample.tsv`: the overview of the number of reads per individual
    and library type (all data and non-UDG data only) that were available for *de novo* assembly
  - `PREP_Nextflow_EAGER_noReads_Weyrich2017_Neanderthals.tsv`: the overview of the number of reads
    available for the four Neanderthal calculus samples published by Weyrich *et al.* (2017)
  - `PREP_Nextflow_EAGER_noReads_ElMiron_sediments.tsv`: the overview of the number of the number of
    reads available for the six El Miron sediment samples generated for this study

2. `ASMB`: results related to the *de novo* assembly and non-reference binning

  - `ASMB_assemblystats_calN50_metaQUAST.tsv`: the overview of the performance of the *de novo*
    assembly summarised using calN50, metaQUAST, Prokka and pyDamage
  - `ASMB_nBins_initialbinning.tsv`: the overview of the number of bins that were returned by the
    individual binners metabat2, maxbin2, and concoct for each sample
  - `ASMB_MAGS_metaWRAP_prefilter.tsv`: the overview of the quality of the MAGs refined by metaWRAP
    prior to filtering for chimeric contigs
  - `ASMB_MAGS_metaWRAP_postfilter.tsv`: the overview of the quality of the MAGs refined by metaWRAP
    after filtering for chimeric contigs

3. `QUAL`: results related to the data quality

  - `QUAL_fragmentlength_distribution.tsv`: the overview of the distribution of DNA molecule lengths
    across the sequencing data generated on 2x 75 bp paired-end Illumina sequencing runs
  - `QUAL_freeBayes_nSubsts.tsv`: the overview of the frequency of each allele difference between the
    allele exported by MEGAHIT from the assembly graph and the genotype call inferred by freeBayes
    was observed
  - `QUAL_freeBayes_distributionMAF.tsv`: the distribution of the allele frequencies for the allele
    that freeBayes inferred to be the genotype by 5% frequency bins
  - `QUAL_freeBayes_nContigs.tsv`: the overview of the number of contigs per sample for which a
    difference between the MEGAHIT and freeBayes sequence could be observed
  - `QUAL_pyDamage_summary_qvalue_predaccuracy.tsv`: summary of the pyDamage results regarding the
    fraction of contigs that are considered "ancient" by pyDamage and the distribution of the
    predicted accuracy
  - `QUAL_dentalcalculus_Chlorobiaceae_refalignment.tsv`: the overview of the number of reads
    aligned to the Chlorobiaceae MAG contigs and to all contigs of EMN001 for each dental calculus
    sample
  - `QUAL_damageprofile_Climicola_Doralis.tsv`: the substitution frequency for all five samples with
    HQ Chlorobiaceae MAGs against the genomes of the species *Chlorobium limicola* and
    *Desulfobulbus oralis* at the 5' end of the reads

4. `REFG`: results related to constructing genomes using reference genomes

  - `REFG_Chlorobiaceae_genomes_snpAD.tsv`: the overview of the performance of the recovery of
    Chlorobiaceae genomes from samples with strong evidence of Chlorobiaceae DNA using the EMN001
    Chlorobiaceae MAG as the reference
